these images appear to show a moment of
Israeli victory in Gaza men perverted to
be Hamas Fighters captured in Gaza Strip
to their underwear with one handing over
his rifle except it was
staged in a second version the rifle is
in his other hand and experts have
questioned why Israeli soldiers would
strip a captive and then order him to
hand over his weapon a stage event
designed for the purposes of public
relations the fact is that they actually
did more than one take in order to get
the perfect shot of this Palestinian man
surrendering and this man wasn't even a
you know a hammer fighter he he ran an
aluminium Workshop right so there's no
evidence that he was even a hammer
fighter uh the fact that they asked him
to do it more than once this take was
obviously clearly for the
media it's not the first time Israeli
efforts at propaganda have failed
another similar alleged scene of his
surrender also steered controversy the
Israeli Army claimed these images show
Hamas suspects surrendering themselves
to Israeli troops but several people say
some of those being humiliated in front
of cameras are relatives and friends
with no relation to Hamas one is a
journalist with an Arab News Outlet Al
Arab
jadid there is a list there was also a
video by Israeli military spokesman
Daniel hajari where he claims a piece of
paper on a wall in a Gaza Hospital shows
the names of Hamas members guarding
Israel captives in the sth of October
this is a guardian list where just the
days of the week written in own these
kind of Hasbro moments these propaganda
events are both designed to you know um
show to the Israeli public that there is
this strategic Victory but also to
inflame Palestinians inflame Pro
Palestinian supporters into getting
angry because when people are angry
they're less likely to reconcile and
we've seen Israel engaging this anti-
diplomacy this method of trying to
resist any measures to bring around a
ceasefire there's no propaganda has
always been a weapon of war and is
commonly used to show up support at home
and gain sympathy abroad social media
has made it easier to circulate
campaigns but it's also made it easier
for the public to spot flows and
inconsistencies and while many claims
are easily disproven they can distract
from the bigger picture like the growing
number of Palestinians being killed in
Gaza alih Hashim Al
jaaz make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer